hi I'm Karen MacNeil and welcome to Napa
Valley rocks celebrating the science
history leadership and winemaking
practices that have made the Napa Valley
renowned most of what we'll explore is
derived from the results of three
scientific research studies but we'll
also look at the people behind the wines
and the pursuit of excellence located a
little more than an hour north of San
Francisco this young new world wine
region has been growing grapes for less
than 200 years Napa Valley is North
America's great wine capital one of the
most treasured yet also one of the
smallest wine regions in the world
despite its large reputation the Napa
Valley is relatively small in size at
its widest point it's just five miles
across the valley floor and 30 miles
long napa valley vineyards produce only
4% of California's total wine grape
harvest and just 9% of Napa County is
planted two grapes
that's about one-eighth the size of
Bordeaux's planted acreage the Napa
Valley is California's first ABA for
American viticultural area designated by
the US government in 1981 to become an
ABA a wine region must represent
distinguishable characteristics like
climate terrain culture and history
since 1981 16 additional ABA s have been
established within the Napa Valley
demonstrating the incredible diversity
of this area the Napa Valley contains
half of the world soil orders a
classification which describes how soils
are formed research conducted about the
valley indicates it may be one of the
most geologically diverse wine regions
in the world
it's Mediterranean climate provides near
perfect growing conditions during the
peak growing season with little rainfall
and warm summer days but cool nights not
only is the grape harvest here small but
the wineries are - 95 % are family-owned
and nearly 80% make less than 10,000
cases of wine per year it's part of its
small size
the Napa Valley wine industry has a big
impact generating 46,000 jobs locally
and more than 300,000 in the US it
contributes more than fifty three
billion dollars annually to America's
economy as you watch this series you'll
not only learn about the facts figures
science and history behind the Napa
Valley you'll also see how vintners here
are leaders committed to enhancing the
land their wines and their community so
open a bottle of Napa Valley wine and
enjoy discovering why Napa Valley rocks